# San Diego Police Vehicle Stops

### Project Introduction and Hypothesis
San Diego has always had very diverse demographics. With a population of over 3 million in the urban district the city is always bustling with people and tourists. Located just above the Mexican border and a major travel destination for Pacific immigrants, almost half of the city’s population are minorities. It comes to our understanding that with a big population comes a big responsibility for enforcing police officers, who have many additional concerns such as illegal immigrants and drug trafficking. We would like to examine whether there is racial bias in police officers when they pull over people in San Diego.

The San Diego Police Division strives to make sure that officers provide a high feeling of value and public trust. Such goals include acting professionally and ethically, identifying crime offenders, and supporting an informed workforce. However, previous reports and files may indicate otherwise. SDSU research found that Hispanics and Africans in San Diego were being more frequently searched and questioned than other racial groups, which eventually received the attention of SDPD. We want to keep in mind that there are various other factors that could explain a bias in stops, such as the police district where the driver was stopped, the demographics of the county, and the gender of the driver. We decided to further investigate if including additional factors still suggest a potential racial discrepancy with proportion to the police district, and if so what may be causing it.

### Hypothesis
Based on the fact that groups such as San Diego Union Tribune have accused the police department of racial bias, we hypothesize that the percentage of stops by race will be higher for races such as Blacks and Hispanics than their percentage of the population, which could be an indication of racial bias. We also hypothesize that Hispanic and Black minorities have a higher chance of receiving citations than other racial groups. Also, based on the criticism the police is receiving, we will see lower citation and arrest rates in the most recent years.
